TITLE: A Practical Intro to Newton's 3 Laws of Motion - ThoughtCo
Newton's First Law says objects need a force to start moving or to change their motion.
Newton's Second Law shows how force, mass, and acceleration are related through a simple equation.
Newton's Third Law tells us that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.
Each law of motion Newton developed has significant mathematical and physical interpretations that are needed to understand motion in our universe. The applications of these laws of motion are truly limitless.
Essentially, Newton's laws define the means by which motion changes, specifically the way in which those changes in motion are related to force and mass.
Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727) was a British physicist. In 1687, Newton introduced the three laws in his book "Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica" (Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy), which is generally referred to as the "Principia." This is where he also introduced his theory of universal gravitation, thus laying the entire foundation of classical mechanics in one volume.
Newton's First Law of Motion states that in order for the motion of an object to change, a force must act upon it. This is a concept generally called inertia.
Newton's Second Law of Motion defines the relationship between acceleration, force, and mass.
Newton's Third Law of Motion states that any time a force acts from one object to another, there is an equal force acting back on the original object. If you pull on a rope, therefore, the rope is pulling back on you as well.
Every body continues in its state of rest, or of uniform motion in a straight line, unless it is compelled to change that state by forces impressed upon it. This is Newton's First Law of Motion, translated from the "Principia".
This is sometimes called the Law of Inertia, or just inertia. Essentially, it makes the following two points: An object that is not moving will not move until a force acts upon it. An object that is in motion will not change velocity (or stop) until a force acts upon it.
A body that is acted on by no net force moves at a constant velocity (which may be zero) and zero acceleration.
The mathematical formulation of the second law is F = ma, with F representing the force, m representing the object's mass and a representing the object's acceleration.
To every action there is always opposed an equal reaction; or, the mutual actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal, and directed to contrary parts. This is Newton's Third Law of Motion, translated from the "Principia".
These forces will be equal in magnitude and opposite in direction. In mathematical terms, it is expressed as: FB = - FA, or FA + FB = 0.
