TITLE: Simple Machines for Kids | Learn all about the 6 simple machines!
description: Simple Machines for Kids teaches all about the main 6 simple machines in a fun and interactive way. We will learn about the different simple
machines, which are; Incline Plane, Lever, Wedge, Screw, Wheel and Axle, and the Pulley.  Almost any machine is created with one of these elements.

The inclined plane can be found in many places. It is triangular shaped with a smooth and even surface and helps move objects to higher or lower places.

The lever is a beam with a ridge that freely rotates or moves on a pivot. It helps you move heavy objects with ease.

The wedge is often attached to a handle. Used for cutting, splitting, tightening, to hold back or together, or for scraping.

Screws are cylinders with a solid top at one end, and a pointed

tip at the other end. Used to hold things together as they pull or push the object.

The large disc is the wheel and the small cylinder is the axle. The wheel is one of the greatest inventions in human history, but would not work without the
axle.

A wheel with a groove in it, and a rope in the groove is called a pulley. A pulley lifts or lowers objects of different weights with relative ease.

Looking for more resources on Simple Machines?  Download our free lesson plans here: Grades 1-4: https://learnbright.org/lessons/scien...

Grades 5-6: https://learnbright.org/lessons/scien...

Thank you for watching and learning with us! We’re constantly releasing new content and videos, so click that “Subscribe” button and you’ll get notified.

Find and Follow Us Online: Facebook:   / learnbright

Instagram:   / learnbrighteducation

Pinterest:   / learnbrighteducation

YouTube:    / learnbright

Website: https://learnbright.org/

*Teachers and Parents! Did you know? In addition to these great videos, we have also created a library of high quality and engaging lessons for your elementary
aged student(s). Visit us, sign up for a free account, and instantly you'll have access to thousands of lesson plans, learning materials, teaching instructions,
 activities, and assignments that your kids will really enjoy! We hope to see you soon!

Browse our entire collection of Science lesson plans: https://learnbright.org/lessons/?filt...

#SimpleMachines

keywords: Simple Machines, Simple Machines for Kids, 6 Simple Machines, Simple Machines Lever, Simple Machines Incline Plane, Simple Machines Wheel and Axle,
Simple Machines Pulley, Simple Machines Screw, Simple Machines Wedge, Clarendon Learning, Learn Bright

title: Simple Machines for Kids | Learn all about the 6 simple machines!
