TITLE: Pythagorean Theorem - NASA Glenn Research Center
To better understand certain problems involving aircraft and propulsion it is necessary to use some mathematical ideas from trigonometry, the study of triangles.
We start with a right triangle. A right triangle is a three sided figure with one angle equal to 90 degrees. A 90 degree angle is called a right angle and that is where the right triangle gets its name.
We define the side of the triangle opposite from the right angle to be the hypotenuse, h. It is the longest side of the three sides of the right triangle. The word "hypotenuse" comes from two Greek words meaning "to stretch", since this is the longest side. We are going to label the other two sides a and b.
The Pythagorean Theorem is a statement relating the lengths of the sides of any right triangle.
The theorem states that: For any right triangle, the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides.
Mathematically, this is written: h^2 = a^2 + b^2.
The theorem has been known in many cultures, by many names, for many years.
Pythagoras, for whom the theorem is named, lived in ancient Greece, 2500 years ago.
It is believed that he learned the theorem during his studies in Egypt. The Egyptians probably knew of the relationship for a thousand years before Pythagoras. The Egyptians knew of this relationship for a triangle with sides in the ratio of "3 - 4 - 5".
5^2 = 3^2 + 4^2. 25 = 9 + 16.
Pythagoras generalized the result to any right triangle. There are many different algebraic and geometric proofs of the theorem. Most of these begin with a construction of squares on a sketch of a basic right triangle.
A square is the special case of a rectangle in which all the sides are equal in length. The area A of a rectangle is the product of the sides. So for a square with a side equal to a, the area is given by: A = a * a = a^2.
So the Pythagorean theorem states the area h^2 of the square drawn on the hypotenuse is equal to the area a^2 of the square drawn on side a plus the area b^2 of the square drawn on side b.
