TITLE: Magnets for Kids | What is a magnet, and how does it work? - YouTube
title: Magnets for Kids | What is a magnet, and how does it work?

description: What do you know about magnets or magnetism? Magnets for Kids teaches you about magnets and how and why they work. People use magnets for more than
 just hanging up artwork and grocery lists on their refrigerators. In fact, the very center of the earth is made of two metals that cause a giant magnetic
field! A magnetic field is the area surrounding a magnet. Let's see what else you learn!

Every magnet has a north pole and a south pole. A north and south pole will always pull toward each other, or attract to each other. If you try to take two
magnets and face the north poles toward each other, they will repel. The same is true of the south poles.

There are a few types of magnets: temporary, permanent, and electromagnet. Temporary magnets become magnetized when a magnetic field is present. But they lose
their magnetism when that magnetic field goes away. Permanent magnets, on the other hand, are made of materials like iron or nickel that are already magnetized
and have their own magnetic field. In fact, the earth's core is made of iron and nickel, which is why it is magnetic.

Electromagnets are the last type. These magnets are created by running an electrical current through a coil with a metal core. The energized core creates a
magnetic field. It stops working as soon as the electric current turns off. An MRI machine at a hospital is an example of an electromagnet. Other things with
magnets in them include telephones, door bells, motors, and compasses.

We hope you and your student(s) enjoyed learning about magnetism and how magnets work! If you want to learn even more, head over to our website and download one
 of our many free lesson plans about magnets, full of activities, worksheets, and more!

https://learnbright.org/lessons/scien...

What you will learn in Magnets for Kids: 0:00 Introduction to magnets

0:27 What is a magnet?

1:06 North and south poles of magnets

2:06 Three types of magnets—temporary, permanent, electromagnet

3:13 Where are magnets used?

4:04 Review of the facts

Thank you for watching and learning with us! We’re constantly releasing new content and videos, so click that “Subscribe” button and you’ll get notified.

Find and Follow Us Online: Facebook:   / learnbright

Instagram:   / learnbrighteducation

Pinterest:   / learnbrighteducation

YouTube: @LearnBright

Website: https://learnbright.org/

*Teachers and Parents! Did you know? In addition to these great videos, we have also created a library of high-quality and engaging lessons for your elementary
 aged student(s). Visit us, sign up for a free account, and instantly you'll have access to thousands of lesson plans, learning materials, teaching instructions,
 activities, and assignments that your kids will really enjoy! We hope to see you soon!

Browse our entire collection of Science lesson plans: https://learnbright.org/lessons/?filt...

#Magnets

#WhatIsAMagnet

keywords: video, sharing, camera phone, video phone, free, upload
