TITLE: The Immune System | Health | Biology | FuseSchool (YouTube)
title: The Immune System | Health | Biology | FuseSchool

description: The main role of the immune system is to prevent disease caused by infection.

Infections can be caused by a wide variety of pathogens,

including bacteria, fungi, parasites (such as malaria) and viruses (such as influenza and the common cold).

The immune system comprises of a network of cells and tissues that work together to prevent disease. All parts of the body that interact with the external 
environment (such as the lungs, digestive tract and skin) have to be prepared to protect the body. The skin acts as a barrier to prevent pathogens entering the 
body. If you cut your leg, your skin protective barrier is broken and so bacteria are now able to enter your cut. Luckily, our bodies have an army of immune 
cells waiting for external invaders. These immune cells are called macrophages. They are able to recognise the bacteria as a threat, based on molecules the 
bacteria express on their surfaces. Once the macrophages recognised the bacteria, they can destroy the bacteria by eating (engulfing) it. This is a process 
called phagocytosis. At the same time, the phagocytes produce molecules called cytokines and chemokines. These alert the rest of the immune system to the 
presence of an invader. Different immune cells called neutrophils are then recruited to your leg. Along with the macrophages, they help to destroy the bacteria.
 Both the macrophages and neutrophils are part of the innate immune system. They provide the first line of defence against invading pathogens. If the invaders 
cannot be controlled by the innate immune system, then more specialised immune cells called lymphocytes are recruited. Lymphocytes include T-cells and B-cells. 
They work together to produce molecules like antibodies, which help to clear the infection. T and B cells are part of the adaptive immune system. Once these 
cells are activated, they are able to remember an infection. So that the next time the bacteria enters the body, they are able to be destroyed more rapidly. The
 innate and adaptive immune systems work together to fight off infections, and prevent the development of disease.

At Fuse School, teachers and animators come together to make fun & easy-to-understand videos in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Maths & ICT. Our OER are available 
free of charge to anyone. Make sure to subscribe - we are going to create 3000 more!

The Fuse School have recently released a Chemistry Education project sponsored by Fuse, called 'The Chemistry Journey'. These videos can be used in a flipped 
classroom model or as a revision aid. Find our other Chemistry videos here:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...

Be sure to follow our social media for the latest videos and information!

Twitter:   / fuseschool

Facebook:   / fuseschool

Google+: http://www.gplus.to/FuseSchool

Youtube:    / virtualschooluk

Email: info@fuseschool.org

This video is distributed under a Creative Commons License:

Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs CC BY-NC-ND

keywords: understand, the virtual school, learning, help, homework, teachers, students, school, tutorial, edutech, educational technology, education, United 
Kingdom, UK, KS3, KS4, Key Stage 3, Key Stage 4, Lesson, Teacher, Learn, Student, immune system, disease, infection, pathogens, bacteria, fungi, parasites, 
malaria, viruses, skin, macrophages, phagocytosis, cytokines, chemokines, neutrophils, innate immune system, lymphocytes, antibodies, adaptive immune system, T 
and B cells, biology, GCSE Biology, Health, influenza, OER
