If I'd woken up earlier, the sunrise over the bridge would've been mine.
If the dog had stayed quiet, the burglar might never have known we were home.
She might've finished the marathon but for the twisted ankle at mile nine.
If they'd replied by noon, I could've changed my travel dates in time.
We might've met years sooner had our trains not been an hour apart.
Had grandpa kept his letters, we'd know how he met grandma.
I'd have taken that job had the commute been under thirty minutes.
Had I learned to swim, last summer's lake trip would've been different.
We could've found the trail if the map hadn't been folded so badly.
If we'd left at dawn, the coast would've appeared before the fog.
Had the bakery opened Sundays, fresh rolls would've been ours to grab.
If you'd sent the draft sooner, I might've reviewed it tonight.
If the batteries had lasted, the radio would've played through the storm.
We should've taken the shortcut to beat that traffic jam.
The café might've survived if rent hadn't doubled last spring.
Had she trusted her gut, that offer would've been turned down.
Had the recipe called for less salt, the soup might've been perfect.
If I'd packed a sweater, the mountain evening would've felt warmer.
Had the coach stayed calm, the quarterfinal might've swung our way.
Had the landlord fixed that pipe, the basement would've stayed dry.
We could've sailed home had the wind held for one more hour.
Had the teacher allowed retakes, my grade might've climbed higher.
If they'd warned us, the car would've been moved off the street.
Had the printer worked, the flyers might've gone out Friday.
We could've grown tomatoes had the frost come a week later.
If the projector hadn't frozen, we'd have laughed straight through midnight.
I'd have packed an umbrella had the sky looked any darker.
Had the shop ordered more stock, the blue bike could've been ours.
If I'd saved her number, I might've called her back that night.
I'd have stayed longer had the music not stopped at ten.
I'd have waved back if I'd noticed you in the crowd.
She'd have laughed had she heard the ending of that story.
