If I'd woken up earlier, the sunrise over the bridge would've been mine.
Had the bakery opened Sundays, fresh rolls would've been ours to grab.
If the projector hadn't frozen, we'd have laughed straight through midnight.
If they'd replied by noon, I could've changed my travel dates in time.
Had the coach stayed calm, the quarterfinal might've swung our way.
I'd have packed an umbrella had the sky looked any darker.
We should've taken the shortcut to beat that traffic jam.
Had grandpa kept his letters, we'd know how he met grandma.
She might've finished the marathon but for the twisted ankle at mile nine.
Had I learned to swim, last summer's lake trip would've been different.
We could've found the trail if the map hadn't been folded so badly.
Had the landlord fixed that pipe, the basement would've stayed dry.
If you'd sent the draft sooner, I might've reviewed it tonight.
The café might've survived if rent hadn't doubled last spring.
I'd have stayed longer had the music not stopped at ten.
Had she trusted her gut, that offer would've been turned down.
We could've sailed home had the wind held for one more hour.
Had the teacher allowed retakes, my grade might've climbed higher.
If the batteries had lasted, the radio would've played through the storm.
I'd have waved back if I'd noticed you in the crowd.
If they'd warned us, the car would've been moved off the street.
Had the recipe called for less salt, the soup might've been perfect.
We might've met years sooner had our trains not been an hour apart.
If I'd packed a sweater, the mountain evening would've felt warmer.
Had the shop ordered more stock, the blue bike could've been ours.
She'd have laughed had she heard the ending of that story.
If the dog had stayed quiet, the burglar might never have known we were home.
I'd have taken that job had the commute been under thirty minutes.
If we'd left at dawn, the coast would've appeared before the fog.
Had the printer worked, the flyers might've gone out Friday.
We could've grown tomatoes had the frost come a week later.
If I'd saved her number, I might've called her back that night.
