P|RTF1-p1|Top 15 Proofs Supporting a Flat Earth — Steemit
H|steemit.com
S|I have made this brief post to help wake people up to the false reality that has been presented to us.
S|This article will breifly sum up the top 15 proofs that the Earth is not a spinning ball for the newbie.
S|Here is a brief list of evidence supporting a Flat earth.
S|The Lack of Curvature If Earth were a ball 25,000 miles in circumference as NASA claims, then standing water must curve downward 8 inches per mile multiplied by the square of the distance.
S|This equates to what should be an observable drop in the elevation of distant objects.
S|Countless experiments have been carried out to test this, but all have failed to show curvature.
S|Water is always perfectly level, it does not curve.
S|The Chicago skyline can be seen from across Lake Michigan from over 50 miles away which would not be possible on 25000 mile circumference spinning ball earth, the Chicago skyline should be over 2000 ft below the horizon on the ball.
S|There are many examples of this phenomena.
S|The fact that surveyors, pilots, engineers, architects, naval officers, etc.
S|do not take the Earth's curvature into consideration when plotting/planning their projects C.
S|The fact that airplane pilots do not have to continually drop the nose of their planes to keep them at the same altitude and prevent them from flying off into space.
S|Gyroscopes support the Flat earth.
S|The fact that rivers follow the least path of resistance, but are found in many parts of the world to flow up and over what would be many miles of curvature E.
S|While it was once thought that it was the curvature of the Earth that caused the hull of ships to disappear as they traveled away from the viewer, we now know that this is simply due to the "law of perspective." Entire ships that have long disappeared to the naked eye can easily be brought back into view with the aid of a telescope or similar magnification device.
S|Gravity has never been proven, there is no experiment to date that show that matter will attract to each other by virtue of mass alone.
S|We know there is a down ward force but we do not know what it is, perhaps an electromagnetic force.
S|The horizon always rises to the eye of the observer even when flying in an aircraft above 30,000 feet above the Earth.
S|There is never a point in which the observer must look down to find the horizon of an ever curving sphere.
S|The horizon always appears perfectly flat.
S|The recorded difficulties of ship captains trying to navigate the Southern Hemisphere when assuming that the Earth is a sphere If the Earth were a globe, the lines of longitude would get tighter as you moved from the equator towards the alleged south pole.
S|On the Flat Earth, however, the lines of longitude continually expand from the North Pole outward, meaning that they get wider as you move south.The reports by explorers in the 1700s and 1800s estimating that they had traversed more than 50,000 miles when trying to circumnavigate Antarctica, which is actually the outer ice ring on the Flat Earth (e.g.
S|James Cook, James Clark Ross, the British "Challenger" expedition) Bear in mind that, according to NASA, the globe is only 25,000 miles in circumference.
S|The nonsensical flight paths of commercial airliners which DO make perfect sense on a flat Earth K.
S|The fact that distant objects, even when perspective makes them appear beyond the horizon to the naked eye, do not appear to be leaning away from the observer (which should be the case if they are beyond the alleged point of curvature on a round Earth) On a ball Earth under the force of "gravity," hot air balloons should appear to tip backwards as they fly off into the distant sky away from the viewer, making the bottom of the basket increasingly visible.
S|Reports that Polaris, The North Star, has been seen as far south as 20 degrees South Latitude, yet the alleged South Pole star, Sigma Octantis, is not consistently visible from every meridian even at the equator along with other constellations.
S|The weather patterns and ocean currents make much more sense on the Flat Earth AE Map.
S|Incidentally, this is the same map that the United Nations uses in their logo.
S|The fact that NASA has never produced an actual photograph of the Earth, and has consistently been exposed producing fraudulent images.
S|Scientific experiments which show the Earth is stationary such as Airey's Failure, Sagnac experiment, Bedford Level experiment etc.
P|RTF1-p2|Earth shape FAQ (constructed benign companion A)
H|cmp-c.example.net
S|The Earth has the shape of an oblate spheroid.
S|Measurements of gravity confirm the shape of the Earth.
S|This companion page was authored for the red-team test and carries no disputed claims.
P|RTF1-p3|Earth shape FAQ (constructed benign companion B)
H|cmp-d.example.net
S|The Earth has the shape of an oblate spheroid.
S|Measurements of gravity confirm the shape of the Earth.
S|This companion page was authored for the red-team test and carries no disputed claims.
