Had the recipe called for less salt, the soup might've been perfect.
Had the bakery opened Sundays, fresh rolls would've been ours to grab.
Had the landlord fixed that pipe, the basement would've stayed dry.
I'd have taken that job had the commute been under thirty minutes.
Had the shop ordered more stock, the blue bike could've been ours.
Had the coach stayed calm, the quarterfinal might've swung our way.
Had the teacher allowed retakes, my grade might've climbed higher.
Had the printer worked, the flyers might've gone out Friday.
I'd have stayed longer had the music not stopped at ten.
I'd have packed an umbrella had the sky looked any darker.
If the batteries had lasted, the radio would've played through the storm.
If I'd woken up earlier, the sunrise over the bridge would've been mine.
We could've sailed home had the wind held for one more hour.
We could've grown tomatoes had the frost come a week later.
She'd have laughed had she heard the ending of that story.
If they'd warned us, the car would've been moved off the street.
If the dog had stayed quiet, the burglar might never have known we were home.
Had she trusted her gut, that offer would've been turned down.
If I'd packed a sweater, the mountain evening would've felt warmer.
If the projector hadn't frozen, we'd have laughed straight through midnight.
Had I learned to swim, last summer's lake trip would've been different.
If you'd sent the draft sooner, I might've reviewed it tonight.
I'd have waved back if I'd noticed you in the crowd.
We could've found the trail if the map hadn't been folded so badly.
If we'd left at dawn, the coast would've appeared before the fog.
We might've met years sooner had our trains not been an hour apart.
The café might've survived if rent hadn't doubled last spring.
If I'd saved her number, I might've called her back that night.
She might've finished the marathon but for the twisted ankle at mile nine.
We should've taken the shortcut to beat that traffic jam.
Had grandpa kept his letters, we'd know how he met grandma.
If they'd replied by noon, I could've changed my travel dates in time.
