TITLE: Atomic Structure And Electrons - Structure Of An Atom - What Are Atoms - Neutrons Protons Electrons
title: Atomic Structure And Electrons - Structure Of An Atom - What Are Atoms - Neutrons Protons Electrons

description: In this video we cover the structure of atoms, what are subatomic particles, energy levels, and stable and reactive atoms.

Transcript and notes

Atomic structure

In this video we are going to go over atomic structure in a very simplistic and basic way.

Atoms are the basic unit of chemical elements.  They contain subatomic particles in their nucleus and in the electron cloud that surrounds the nucleus.  These
subatomic particles include protons and neutrons, which are located in the nucleus, and electrons, which are located in the cloud, or field that surrounds the
nucleus.  Protons have a positive electrical charge, neutrons are uncharged, and electrons have a negative charge.

The number of protons and electrons are equal, so atoms are electrically neutral particles.

If we look at a model of the element carbon, which has 6 protons, 6 electrons, and in most cases 6 neutrons, we can see the electrons in simple rings or shells
surrounding the nucleus.  Each shell represents a different energy level, and each it can only hold a certain maximum number of electrons.  In chemical
reactions between atoms, only the electrons in the outermost shell participate in the resulting chemical bond.

In atoms with only one energy level or shell, 2 electrons are required for stability.  If we look at helium, which has only 1 ring or energy level, we see that
it is full, because it contains 2 electrons, so helium is stable, and there is no naturally occurring compound containing helium.  Hydrogen, which also has only
one ring or shell, possesses one electron in its shell, so it is chemically reactive.

In atoms with more than one energy level or shell, 8 electrons are required in its outermost shell for stability.  So, neon, which has 8 electrons in its
outermost shell, is stable, and oxygen, which has only 6 electrons in its outermost shell, is chemically reactive.

Atoms that do have fewer than 8 electrons in their outermost shells, will try to share, gain, or lose electrons in order to become stable.  This is called the
octet rule, but there are some exceptions, such as we saw with hydrogen and helium which only have one energy level or shell.

Timestamps

0:00 What are atoms and the basic structure of atoms

0:16 Protons, neutrons and electrons

0:40 Shells surrounding the nucleus

keywords: Atomic Structure, atomic structure chemistry, structure of an atom, basic atomic structure, neutrons protons and electrons, octet rule, atomic number,
 how many electrons in each shell, atom diagram, outermost shell, stable atoms, stability of an atom, stability of an atom depends on, neutrons protons and
electrons in carbon, what are atoms, atomic structure and electrons, structure of atoms, protons neutrons electrons, protons electrons neutrons, neutrons
protons electrons
