TITLE: 🔥 Thermal CONDUCTION, CONVECTION and RADIATION | Heat Transfer - Grade 5 | Happy Learning Style
description: In this video for Primary Education teachers and kids, we explain the three ways we can transfer heat and the difference between conduction, 
convection and radiation.

Conduction

This is the heat transfer from a hot object to a cooler one when they are in contact.

The molecules of the hot object move faster. When they collide with those of the cold object, they transmit that movement causing them to move faster and 
increase the temperature. At the same time, the temperature of the hot object will drop until both temperatures are equal.

Heat can also travel through a single object because molecules collide with each other and transmit motion. Metals are very good thermal conductors. However, 
other materials, such as wood, are thermal insulators because they do not conduct heat easily.

Convection

Circular motion that happens when warmer particles in a fluid (which are less dense) rise, while cooler particles (which are denser) move down and fill that 
space. Those cool particles at the bottom are then heated up, become less dense and rise, and this process is repeated constantly.

Radiation

Process by which heat, in the form of electromagnetic radiation, is emitted in all directions.

Videos used:

after effects efecto para video FUEGO 🔥🔥video largo (fire-animation)HD:    • after effects efecto para video FUEGO 🔥🔥vi...

HEAT TRANSFER SONG | Science Music Video:    • HEAT TRANSFER SONG | Science Music Video

Conduction animation - AQA GCSE Food Preparation and Nutrition:    • Conduction animation - AQA GCSE Food Prepa...

Conduction Convection Radiation-Heat Transfer:    • Conduction -Convection- Radiation-Heat Tra...

Flow of Heat - Conduction:    • Flow of Heat - Conduction

Conduction | Heat | Physics:    • Conduction | Heat | Physics

Different modes of Heat Transfer:    • Different modes of Heat Transfer | Conduct...

Heat Transfer - Convection:    • Heat Transfer - Convection

Physics - Energy - Heat Transfer - Convection:    • Physics - Energy - Heat Transfer - Convection

Physics - Heat Transfer - Thermal Radiation:    • Physics - Heat Transfer - Thermal Radiation

Artist’s animation of the Sun becoming a red giant:    • Artist’s animation of the Sun becoming a r...

My Twitter profile:   / primaria_el

Contact: elrincondeprimaria2020@gmail.com

keywords: conduction convection and radiation, conduction convection and radiation heat transfer, heat transfer radiation, transfer of heat conduction 
convection and radiation, transfer of heat, transfer of heat by convection, transfer of heat by radiation, transfer of heat by conduction, transfer of heat 
energy, conduction of heat elementary science, heat transfer for elementary students

title: 🔥 Thermal CONDUCTION, CONVECTION and RADIATION | Heat Transfer - Grade 5 | Happy Learning Style
