TITLE: Speed of light - Simple English Wikipedia
The speed of light, in any medium, which is usually denoted by c, is a physical constant important in many areas of physics. It is denoted by "c0" especially in vacuum medium, although the symbol 'c' can be used to refer to that in any medium. It is exactly 299,792,458 metres per second (983,571,056 feet per second) by definition. A photon (particle of light) travels at this speed in a vacuum.
According to special relativity, c is the maximum speed at which all energy, matter, and physical information in the universe can travel. It is the speed of all massless particles such as photons, and associated fields, including electromagnetic radiation such as light, in a vacuum.
It is predicted by the current theory to be the speed of gravity (that is, gravitational waves). Such particles and waves travel at c regardless of the motion of the source or the inertial frame of reference of the observer. In the theory of relativity, c interrelates space and time, and appears in the famous equation of mass-energy equivalence E = mc^2.
The special theory of relativity is based on the prediction, so far upheld by observations, that the measured speed of light in a vacuum is the same whether or not the source of the light and the person doing the measuring are moving relative to each other. This is sometimes expressed as "the speed of light is independent of the reference frame."
A consequence of this fact, that the speed of light is the same for all (inertial) observers, is that no matter how much energy is used, nothing with mass can be accelerated to reach or go faster than the speed of light.
Maxwell's equations predicted the speed of light and confirmed Michael Faraday's idea that light was an electromagnetic wave (a way that energy moves).
The index of refraction of a clear material is the ratio between the speed of light in a vacuum and the speed of light in that material.
The finite speed of light is a major constraint on long-distance space travel. Supposing a journey to the other side of the Milky Way, the total time for a message and its reply would be about 200,000 years.
The speed of light can also be of concern over very short distances. In supercomputers, the speed of light imposes a limit on how quickly data can be sent between processors. If a processor operates at 1 gigahertz, a signal can only travel a maximum of about 30 centimetres (1 ft) in a single cycle.
