TITLE: Speed of light - Wikipedia
The speed of light is the speed of electromagnetic waves. Light travels at slower speed inside materials like glass or water; its highest speed is in a vacuum. The speed of light in vacuum is a universal physical constant denoted c, exactly equal to 299792458 m/s. It is exact because, by international agreement, a metre is defined as the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299792458 second.
The value 299,792,458 metres per second is approximately 1 billion kilometres per hour; 700 million miles per hour.
All forms of electromagnetic radiation, including visible light, travel in vacuum at the speed c as do massless particles and field perturbations, such as gravitational waves. The speed of light in vacuum is the same for all observers, no matter their relative velocity. As a result, massless particles and waves travel at c in a vacuum regardless of the motion of the source or the inertial reference frame of the observer.
The speed of light in vacuum is the upper limit for the speed at which information, matter, or energy can travel through space. Particles with nonzero rest mass can be accelerated to approach c but can never reach it, regardless of the frame of reference in which their speed is measured.
Due to its finite speed, sunlight takes 8 minutes and 10 to 27 seconds to reach Earth, depending on the time of year.
The speed at which light propagates through transparent materials, such as glass or air, is less than c. The ratio between c and the speed v at which light travels in a material is called the refractive index n of the material (n = c / v). For example, for visible light, the refractive index of glass is typically around 1.5, meaning that light in glass travels at about 200000 km/s; the refractive index of air for visible light is about 1.0003.
Albert Einstein postulated that the speed of light c with respect to any inertial frame of reference is a constant and is independent of the motion of the light source. He explored the consequences of that postulate by deriving the theory of relativity, and so showed that the parameter c had relevance outside of the context of light and electromagnetism. In the theory of relativity, c interrelates space and time and appears in the famous mass-energy equivalence, E = mc^2.
The speed of light in vacuum is usually denoted by a lowercase c.
The constant c is defined in the International System of Units (SI) as exactly 299792458 m/s.
In imperial units, the speed of light is approximately 186282 miles per second.
Massless particles travel at the speed of light.
More generally, it is impossible for signals or energy to travel faster than c.
