If they'd replied by noon, I could've changed my travel dates in time.
Had grandpa kept his letters, we'd know how he met grandma.
We should've taken the shortcut to beat that traffic jam.
She might've finished the marathon but for the twisted ankle at mile nine.
If I'd saved her number, I might've called her back that night.
The café might've survived if rent hadn't doubled last spring.
We might've met years sooner had our trains not been an hour apart.
If we'd left at dawn, the coast would've appeared before the fog.
We could've found the trail if the map hadn't been folded so badly.
I'd have waved back if I'd noticed you in the crowd.
If you'd sent the draft sooner, I might've reviewed it tonight.
Had I learned to swim, last summer's lake trip would've been different.
If the projector hadn't frozen, we'd have laughed straight through midnight.
If I'd packed a sweater, the mountain evening would've felt warmer.
Had she trusted her gut, that offer would've been turned down.
If the dog had stayed quiet, the burglar might never have known we were home.
If they'd warned us, the car would've been moved off the street.
She'd have laughed had she heard the ending of that story.
We could've grown tomatoes had the frost come a week later.
We could've sailed home had the wind held for one more hour.
If I'd woken up earlier, the sunrise over the bridge would've been mine.
If the batteries had lasted, the radio would've played through the storm.
I'd have packed an umbrella had the sky looked any darker.
I'd have stayed longer had the music not stopped at ten.
Had the teacher allowed retakes, my grade might've climbed higher.
Had the printer worked, the flyers might've gone out Friday.
Had the coach stayed calm, the quarterfinal might've swung our way.
Had the shop ordered more stock, the blue bike could've been ours.
I'd have taken that job had the commute been under thirty minutes.
Had the landlord fixed that pipe, the basement would've stayed dry.
Had the bakery opened Sundays, fresh rolls would've been ours to grab.
Had the recipe called for less salt, the soup might've been perfect.
