If I'd woken up earlier, the sunrise over the bridge would've been mine.
If I'd packed a sweater, the mountain evening would've felt warmer.
I'd have waved back if I'd noticed you in the crowd.
I'd have packed an umbrella had the sky looked any darker.
I'd have stayed longer had the music not stopped at ten.
Had the landlord fixed that pipe, the basement would've stayed dry.
I'd have taken that job had the commute been under thirty minutes.
Had the bakery opened Sundays, fresh rolls would've been ours to grab.
We should've taken the shortcut to beat that traffic jam.
Had she trusted her gut, that offer would've been turned down.
She'd have laughed had she heard the ending of that story.
If the projector hadn't frozen, we'd have laughed straight through midnight.
If the batteries had lasted, the radio would've played through the storm.
Had the teacher allowed retakes, my grade might've climbed higher.
Had the printer worked, the flyers might've gone out Friday.
If I'd saved her number, I might've called her back that night.
Had the coach stayed calm, the quarterfinal might've swung our way.
If you'd sent the draft sooner, I might've reviewed it tonight.
Had the recipe called for less salt, the soup might've been perfect.
The café might've survived if rent hadn't doubled last spring.
Had the shop ordered more stock, the blue bike could've been ours.
We could've grown tomatoes had the frost come a week later.
We could've found the trail if the map hadn't been folded so badly.
We could've sailed home had the wind held for one more hour.
We might've met years sooner had our trains not been an hour apart.
Had grandpa kept his letters, we'd know how he met grandma.
Had I learned to swim, last summer's lake trip would've been different.
If they'd warned us, the car would've been moved off the street.
If they'd replied by noon, I could've changed my travel dates in time.
If we'd left at dawn, the coast would've appeared before the fog.
She might've finished the marathon but for the twisted ankle at mile nine.
If the dog had stayed quiet, the burglar might never have known we were home.
